In this video I'll demonstrate how to inflate a thin provisioned desk.
So here you can see I have a virtual machine called test and if I click on the summary of this virtual
machine we can see the VM hardware displayed here and this virtual machine has one hard disk a 40 gig
hard disk and I can see to that that hard disk is currently in provision and it's located in my data
store called big.
So I'm going to go ahead and go to that data store called big and I'm going to look at the files that
are present and you can see here for my virtual machine called test.
There is a folder and within that virtual machines folder Here's my VMT OK.
This is the actual virtual disk for this virtual machine.
And it was a 40 gig virtual disk that is currently consuming 96 kilobytes of space.
This is the beauty of the thin provision desk right.
It consumes only the space that it actually needs.
Right.
And that's it.
Now if I were to write quick this test at VMT K I could choose to inflate it.
Right.
And what the in-flight operation is going to do is it's actually going to take that VMT K and convert
it to a thick provisioned V.M. decay.
It's going to change it to a thick provisioned virtual disk.
I'm just going to bring my recent tasks up here so we can see this happening.
So it's good to change it to a thick provision desk.
And this is going to take some time.
Right.
Because what it's basically doing is setting aside all of that disk space for that VMT OK.
Setting aside all of that physical disk space.
So it's now going to chew up instead of you know 96 kilobytes.
It's actually going to chew up something closer to 40 gigs which is the actual amount of disk space
that we've granted to that virtual machine.
Right.
So again this operation is going to take a while you can see it's at 1 percent now.
It's going to take a while to actually chew up and consume all that space and guarantee it to that VM.
And as the inflate process is going you can see the results here that now we're consuming six hundred
twenty five megs of space and as time goes on it will be consuming more and more.
And so now we've lost the benefit of a thin provision.
All right we're changing this virtual disk over to what's called the thick provisioned Eger zeroed disk.
And you may be thinking at this point well why would I ever want to do that I'm wasting all of this
space.
Well the thing is a thick provisioned eager zero disk actually performs better for certain workloads.
Right.
So if you're running something like a sequel database or a Sharepoint server you may want to consider
using a thick provisioned eager zero a desk because those really write intensive workloads work better
on a disk that's eager Zira.